we start with the latest developments at
the Rafa Crossing in southern Gaza where
the first ambulances carrying the
wounded from Gaza are entering Egypt
take a look at these these are pictures
showing these ambulances coming through
it's thought 88 injured Palestinians and
around 500 foreign Nationals will be
allowed out in the very first phase of
this movement out of Gaza into Egypt the
UK's foreign office says it understands
the Raffa Crossing will be open for
controlled and Tim limited periods to
allow specific groups of foreign
Nationals and the seriously wounded to
leave in the meantime Hamas says that
seven of the civilian hostages it took
from Southern Israel last month were
killed in Israeli air strikes on the
jabalia refugee camp in Gaza on Tuesday
it says three were foreign passport
holders Israel hasn't commented as yet
on the Hamas claim well meanwhile the
Israel Defense Forces have released this
footage of Warships with missile
capabilities in Red Sea which they say
are there to strengthen defense
efforts well for more on this developing
story Let's cross live now to our
correspondent in southern Israel Anna
Foster
Anna maram thank you it's been a a
morning where we heard really in the
early hours that the Rafa Crossing was
expected to open for around about 80
seriously injured Palestinians and
several hundred foreign passport holders
to actually pass out of Gaza into Egypt
through the raff of Crossing now it's
worth saying that this is something that
has been discussed more than once and
there hasn't been an evacuation of this
type so far in this more than three and
a half weeks of war the only people
we've really seen leave Gaza have been
four hostages who were released by Hamas
and one Israeli soldier who was said to
have been rescued in a in a mission
there a few days ago so we watched this
morning as crowds of people gathered on
the Garen side of the crossing and again
it it is a a slow and an often
painstaking process we saw the
ambulances lining up waiting to take
people and as is so often the case with
this it's such a fast moving story we
also had Communications that were lost
again in Gaza in the last few hours so
really trying to piece together how many
of those people were going to be able to
leave there is a list that has been
published and it was published and
finalized before now of foreign passport
holders whose names and nationalities
had been checked and they were told that
they would be allowed to leave we've
heard from the UK foreign Ministry just
in the last few hours that they believe
that that is going to happen in a staged
process over a number of days but
details are still really very thin at
all and what we're not seeing just yet
that's not to say it won't happen but
what we're not seeing just yet is large
numbers of people actually through that
Crossing on the other side now our
correspondent in Gaza rushia Abal is uh
on the uh the Gaza side um and we'll
hear from him and also as well these
live pictures to bring you from my
position here in southern Israel where
you can see these continuing strikes
over Gaza you can see smoke in the air
it is one reason why people are of
course trying to leave Gaza in numbers
and rushi Abu Alo H gave us the latest
from there from his side of the crossing
this
morning this is the Rafa Crossing around
400 500 people are waiting here to cross
this is the first people who have dual
nationalities and they are waiting for
the Egyptian to allow them to cross I
have the five officers uh passport
Control Officers who are inside now the
Palestinian side of the of the terminal
they said they will process first about
8 to8 injured people with serious
injuries they will process them first
and then they will start allowing
Nationals we understand from like local
Authority here that about 7,000 people
who are registered as dual National in
in Gaza and they will
be allowed to cross to the other side of
the border to the Egyptian side uh 500
beer day so this uh process is going to
be long and it will take time and uh but
until now in the place here in ra we
haven't seen like any police any Hamas
ran police controlling the area we
haven't noticed any problem yet the
crowd is still small and they
are relatively manageable they are
waiting in this whole here the terminal
is in this side so once the Egyptians
are approve call the Palestinian side
they will be Crossing into the other
side of the Border this is a very
significant development giving that the
crossing was closed totally closed like
since the beginning of of this war it
was open for like two days in the
beginning and after that Egypt shut the
crossing because they said Israel bombed
uh the this Hall we were able to see
some footage about the damage we
understand that the uh some heavy
machinery were
inside last week and about 10 days ago
they were fixing the the damage there
today is going to be a test for this
Corridor Egypt want to take as much
wounded people as possible
to help the the Palestinians getting
a treatment in Egypt because the
hospital in Gaza are overwhelmed by the
number of of casualties and the shortage
of fuel and Medicine